README.md, before:

# openhab

#### Table of Contents

1. [Overview](#overview)
2. [Module Description - What the module does and why it is useful](#module-description)
3. [Setup - The basics of getting started with openhab](#setup)
    * [What openhab affects](#what-openhab-affects)
    * [Setup requirements](#setup-requirements)
    * [Beginning with openhab](#beginning-with-openhab)
4. [Usage - Configuration options and additional functionality](#usage)
    * [Hiera](#hiera)
    * [Using your own items/rules/sitemaps/etc](#Using-your-own-items/rules/sitemaps/etc)
5. [Reference - An under-the-hood peek at what the module is doing and how](#reference)
5. [Limitations - OS compatibility, etc.](#limitations)
6. [Development - Guide for contributing to the module](#development)
    * [Todo - my todo list](#todo)   

## Overview

Installing openhab & addons, currently developing for RPi/raspbian and debian, but should also work
on other Linux based system. Not using the OS version but the stock.

## Module Description

This module has as goal to simplify the installation and configuration of openhab.
The reason to build this: I expect my microsd card to fail once in a while and I am
too lazy to do a complete reinstall by hand.

## Setup

### What openhab affects
your household ;-)

### Setup Requirements

I am using plugin sync, not tested it without. Hiera is REQUIRED!


### Beginning with openhab

Get an Rpi with raspbian and use it :-) also normal debian should work,
java is auto installed by using puppetlabs-java, disable it by setting $install_java  to false.
The plugin does not support oracle java on RaspberryPi. Oracle java is recommended for Openhab.

## Usage

### Hiera
My hiera file currenty looks like this:
```
---

openhab::personalconfigmodule     : 'openhab-personal'
openhab::version                  : '1.8.3'
openhab::install_java             : false
openhab::install_repository       : true
openhab::install_habmin           : true
openhab::install_greent           : false
openhab::install_dir              : '/etc/openhab'
openhab::install_dir              : '/etc/openhab'
openhab::configuration:
    security_netmask              : '10.0.1.0/24'
    persistence_default           : 'rrd4j'


openhab_addons:
  binding-zwave:
      configuration:
          port                    : '/dev/ttyUSB0'
          healtime                : 2
          mastercontroller        : true
          setsuc                  : false
          softreset               : false
  io-myopenhab: {}
  binding-http:
      configuration:
          timeout                 : 500
          caches: []
  binding-sonos:
      configuration:
          pollingperiod           : 1000
          hosts:
              - host              : 'kueche'
                rinconuid         : 'RINCON_1234567890'
  persistence-mysql:
      configuration:
          url                     : 'jdbc:mysql://127.0.0.1:3306/openhab'
          user                    : 'openhab'
          password                : 'openhab'
          waittimeout             : '30'
          reconnectcnt            : '5'
  binding-denon:
      configuration:
        update                    : 5000
        hosts:
            - host                : 'sr7005'
              ip                  : '10.0.1.125'
              update              : 'telnet'
...
```
### Using your own items/rules/sitemaps/etc
To use your own item/rules/sitemaps/etc files, you need to set the variable openhab::personalconfigmodule. In this
variable you place the name of the folder name of the module that contains the files. In my case that is openhab-personal.
In the module directory, you need a directory named files with subdirectories items, rules and sitemaps.

### Change logging settings
In this example the logging settings of openhab are set to rotate the file logs each day and keep seven archives.
WARN is logged to the openhab.log and to stdout. INFO is logged additionally to a remote syslog server.

Hiera:
```
openhab::logging:
    openhab:
        logname: 'FILE'
        enabled: true
        history: 7
        rollover_pattern: 'yyyy-MM-dd'
        levels:
            - 'WARN'
    events:
        logname: 'EVENTFILE'
        enabled: true
        history: 7
        rollover_pattern: 'yyyy-MM-dd'
    stdout:
        enabled: true
        logname: 'STDOUT'
        levels:
            - 'WARN'
    syslog:
        enabled: true
        logname: 'SYSLOG'
        host: '10.0.1.1'
        facility: 'LOCAL6'
        logpattern: '{}openhab: [%thread] %logger %msg'
        levels:
            - 'INFO'
```

## Reference

### Working plugins

#### Action pushover
Currently only implemented defaultuser and defaulttoken vars.
Hiera:
```
openhab_addons:
  action-pushover:
      configuration:
          defaulttimeout          : 10000
          defaulttoken            : 'findyourtokenonpushoverwebsite'
          defaultuser             : 'findyouruseronpushoverwebsite'
          defaulttitle            : 'OpenHAB'
          defaultpriority         : 0
          defaulturl              : ''
          defaulturltitle         : ''
          defaulturltitle         : ''
          defaultretry            : 300
          defaultexpire           : 3600
```
in rules you can send a message through pushover with the following code:
```
pushover("Laundry machine is finished")
```

#### Action mqtt
(I am using it with mqttwarn for sending messages, in the example beneath I use
it to signal me, the laundrymachine is fisnished)
Hiera
```
openhab_addons:
  action-pushover:
      configuration:
          id                    : 'raspi'
          url                   : 'tcp://localhost:1883'
```

Items file for sending a message:
```
String mqWas {mqtt=">[raspi:wasmachine/1:state:*:default]"}
```

in a rule:
```
postUpdate(mqWas, "was is klaar")
```

#### Binding zwave
Hiera
```
openhab_addons:
   binding-zwave:
       configuration:
           port                    : '/dev/ttyUSB0'
           healtime                : 2
           mastercontroller        : true
           setsuc                  : false
           softreset               : false
```

#### Binding http
Hiera
```
openhab_addons:
   binding-http:
       configuration:
           timeout                 : 500
           caches: []
```

#### Binding weather
Hiera
```
openhab_addons:
   binding-weather:
       configuration:
           locations:
               - id                : 'home'
                 name              : 'home'
                 latitude          : '0.0000'
                 longitude         : '0.0000'
                 woeid             : '123456'
                 provider          : 'Yahoo'
                 language          : 'de'
                 updateinterval    : '60'
           apikeys: []
```

#### Binding hue
Hiera
```
openhab_addons:
   binding-hue:
       configuration:
           ip                      : 'huebridge-ip-or-hostname'
           secret                  : 'openHABRuntime'
           refresh                 : '1000'
```

#### Binding astro
Hiera
```
openhab_addons:
   binding-astro:
       configuration:
           latitude                : '0.0000'
           longitude               : '0.0000'
           interval                : '600'
```

#### Binding sonos
Hiera
```
openhab_addons:
   binding-sonos:
       configuration:
           pollingperiod           : 1000
           hosts:
               - host              : 'kueche'
                 rinconuid         : 'RINCON_1234567'
               - host              : 'kind'
                 rinconuid         : 'RINCON_1234568'
```

#### Binding denon
Hiera
```
openhab_addons:
   binding-denon:
       configuration:
         update                    : 5000
         hosts:
             - host                : 'denon1'
               ip                  : '127.0.0.1'
               update              : 'telnet'
```

#### Persistence mysql
Hiera
```
openhab_addons:
   persistence-mysql:
       configuration:
           url                     : 'jdbc:mysql://127.0.0.1:3306/openhab'
           user                    : 'openhab'
           password                : 'openhab'
           waittimeout             : '30'
           reconnectcnt            : '5'
```

#### Persistence mongodb
Hiera
```
openhab_addons:
   persistence-mongodb:
       configuration:
           url                     : 'mongodb://127.0.0.1:27017'
           database                : 'openhab'
           collection              : 'openhab'
```

## Limitations

Currently you can use plugins from a different version but you are limited to a single
source for a version, you cant have by example 2 different 1.7.1 versions

## Development

Currently working on getting all the basics working. For lots of addons I do accept pull requests ;-)
If you prefer to have me writing the support for an addon, please create an issue on github.

### How to add new addons

In order to add new addons you need to create a template snippet like openhab-addon-[binding|action|io|persistence]-ADDONNAME-VERSION.cfg.erb
This is automatically concated when configuration data is set using hiera.
Hiera
```
openhab_addons:
   persistence-mypersistence:
       configuration:
           host                    : 'localhost'
           database                : 'openhab'
           my_array:
             - id                  : '1'
               name                : 'name1'
             - id                  : '2'
               name                : 'name2'
```
In the template you can use @configuration to access the data.

```
mypersistence:url=mypersistence://<%= @configuration['host'] -%>/<%= @configuration['database'] %>
# Creates:
#mypersistence:url=mypersistence://localhost/openhab

# Array Example
<% @configuration['my_array'].each do |data| -%>
mypersistence:<%= data['id'] -%>.name=<%= data['name'] %>
<% end -%>

# Creates:
mypersistence:1.name=name1
mypersistence:2.name=name2

```

### Todo
* test on centos/etc
* habmin is installed, but requires zwave addon, without it doesnt work, need to ensure a zwave addon is available
* lots of modules need their config in the openhab.cfg, so lots of work on the template. Please make issues for requests
* updating the documentation
* travis-ci and other testing

Commit message:

Allow getting personal config from a git repo.

README.md, after:

# openhab

#### Table of Contents

1. [Overview](#overview)
2. [Module Description - What the module does and why it is useful](#module-description)
3. [Setup - The basics of getting started with openhab](#setup)
    * [What openhab affects](#what-openhab-affects)
    * [Setup requirements](#setup-requirements)
    * [Beginning with openhab](#beginning-with-openhab)
4. [Usage - Configuration options and additional functionality](#usage)
    * [Hiera](#hiera)
    * [Using your own items/rules/sitemaps/etc](#Using-your-own-items/rules/sitemaps/etc)
    * [Change logging settings](#Change-logging-settings)
5. [Reference - An under-the-hood peek at what the module is doing and how](#reference)
5. [Limitations - OS compatibility, etc.](#limitations)
6. [Development - Guide for contributing to the module](#development)
    * [Todo - my todo list](#todo)   

## Overview

Installing openhab & addons, currently developing for RPi/raspbian and debian, but should also work
on other Linux based system. Not using the OS version but the stock.

## Module Description

This module has as goal to simplify the installation and configuration of openhab.
The reason to build this: I expect my microsd card to fail once in a while and I am
too lazy to do a complete reinstall by hand.

## Setup

### What openhab affects
your household ;-)

### Setup Requirements

I am using plugin sync, not tested it without. Hiera is REQUIRED!


### Beginning with openhab

Get an Rpi with raspbian and use it :-) also normal debian should work,
java is auto installed by using puppetlabs-java, disable it by setting $install_java  to false.
The plugin does not support oracle java on RaspberryPi. Oracle java is recommended for Openhab.

## Usage

### Hiera
My hiera file currenty looks like this:
```
---

openhab::personalconfigmodule     : 'openhab-personal'
openhab::version                  : '1.8.3'
openhab::install_java             : false
openhab::install_repository       : true
openhab::install_habmin           : true
openhab::install_greent           : false
openhab::install_dir              : '/etc/openhab'
openhab::install_dir              : '/etc/openhab'
openhab::configuration:
    security_netmask              : '10.0.1.0/24'
    persistence_default           : 'rrd4j'


openhab_addons:
  binding-zwave:
      configuration:
          port                    : '/dev/ttyUSB0'
          healtime                : 2
          mastercontroller        : true
          setsuc                  : false
          softreset               : false
  io-myopenhab: {}
  binding-http:
      configuration:
          timeout                 : 500
          caches: []
  binding-sonos:
      configuration:
          pollingperiod           : 1000
          hosts:
              - host              : 'kueche'
                rinconuid         : 'RINCON_1234567890'
  persistence-mysql:
      configuration:
          url                     : 'jdbc:mysql://127.0.0.1:3306/openhab'
          user                    : 'openhab'
          password                : 'openhab'
          waittimeout             : '30'
          reconnectcnt            : '5'
  binding-denon:
      configuration:
        update                    : 5000
        hosts:
            - host                : 'sr7005'
              ip                  : '10.0.1.125'
              update              : 'telnet'
...
```
### Using your own items/rules/sitemaps/etc
To use your own item/rules/sitemaps/etc files, you need to set the variable openhab::personalconfigmodule. In this
variable you place the name of the folder name of the module that contains the files. In my case that is openhab-personal.
In the module directory, you need a directory named files with subdirectories items, rules and sitemaps.

An alternative is to use the variable openhab::personalconfigvcs. Using this fetches the data from a remote respository like 
git and creates symlinks from the configurations folder. To use this set in hiera:
```
openhab::personalconfigvcs:
    provider: 'git'
    branch: 'master'
    url: 'git@host:repository.git'
    repopath: '/etc/openhab/configurations.git'
```

### Change logging settings
In this example the logging settings of openhab are set to rotate the file logs each day and keep seven archives.
WARN is logged to the openhab.log and to stdout. INFO is logged additionally to a remote syslog server.

Hiera:
```
openhab::logging:
    openhab:
        logname: 'FILE'
        enabled: true
        history: 7
        rollover_pattern: 'yyyy-MM-dd'
        levels:
            - 'WARN'
    events:
        logname: 'EVENTFILE'
        enabled: true
        history: 7
        rollover_pattern: 'yyyy-MM-dd'
    stdout:
        enabled: true
        logname: 'STDOUT'
        levels:
            - 'WARN'
    syslog:
        enabled: true
        logname: 'SYSLOG'
        host: '10.0.1.1'
        facility: 'LOCAL6'
        logpattern: '{}openhab: [%thread] %logger %msg'
        levels:
            - 'INFO'
```

## Reference

### Working plugins

#### Action pushover
Currently only implemented defaultuser and defaulttoken vars.
Hiera:
```
openhab_addons:
  action-pushover:
      configuration:
          defaulttimeout          : 10000
          defaulttoken            : 'findyourtokenonpushoverwebsite'
          defaultuser             : 'findyouruseronpushoverwebsite'
          defaulttitle            : 'OpenHAB'
          defaultpriority         : 0
          defaulturl              : ''
          defaulturltitle         : ''
          defaulturltitle         : ''
          defaultretry            : 300
          defaultexpire           : 3600
```
in rules you can send a message through pushover with the following code:
```
pushover("Laundry machine is finished")
```

#### Action mqtt
(I am using it with mqttwarn for sending messages, in the example beneath I use
it to signal me, the laundrymachine is fisnished)
Hiera
```
openhab_addons:
  action-pushover:
      configuration:
          id                    : 'raspi'
          url                   : 'tcp://localhost:1883'
```

Items file for sending a message:
```
String mqWas {mqtt=">[raspi:wasmachine/1:state:*:default]"}
```

in a rule:
```
postUpdate(mqWas, "was is klaar")
```

#### Binding zwave
Hiera
```
openhab_addons:
   binding-zwave:
       configuration:
           port                    : '/dev/ttyUSB0'
           healtime                : 2
           mastercontroller        : true
           setsuc                  : false
           softreset               : false
```

#### Binding http
Hiera
```
openhab_addons:
   binding-http:
       configuration:
           timeout                 : 500
           caches: []
```

#### Binding weather
Hiera
```
openhab_addons:
   binding-weather:
       configuration:
           locations:
               - id                : 'home'
                 name              : 'home'
                 latitude          : '0.0000'
                 longitude         : '0.0000'
                 woeid             : '123456'
                 provider          : 'Yahoo'
                 language          : 'de'
                 updateinterval    : '60'
           apikeys: []
```

#### Binding hue
Hiera
```
openhab_addons:
   binding-hue:
       configuration:
           ip                      : 'huebridge-ip-or-hostname'
           secret                  : 'openHABRuntime'
           refresh                 : '1000'
```

#### Binding astro
Hiera
```
openhab_addons:
   binding-astro:
       configuration:
           latitude                : '0.0000'
           longitude               : '0.0000'
           interval                : '600'
```

#### Binding sonos
Hiera
```
openhab_addons:
   binding-sonos:
       configuration:
           pollingperiod           : 1000
           hosts:
               - host              : 'kueche'
                 rinconuid         : 'RINCON_1234567'
               - host              : 'kind'
                 rinconuid         : 'RINCON_1234568'
```

#### Binding denon
Hiera
```
openhab_addons:
   binding-denon:
       configuration:
         update                    : 5000
         hosts:
             - host                : 'denon1'
               ip                  : '127.0.0.1'
               update              : 'telnet'
```

#### Persistence mysql
Hiera
```
openhab_addons:
   persistence-mysql:
       configuration:
           url                     : 'jdbc:mysql://127.0.0.1:3306/openhab'
           user                    : 'openhab'
           password                : 'openhab'
           waittimeout             : '30'
           reconnectcnt            : '5'
```

#### Persistence mongodb
Hiera
```
openhab_addons:
   persistence-mongodb:
       configuration:
           url                     : 'mongodb://127.0.0.1:27017'
           database                : 'openhab'
           collection              : 'openhab'
```

## Limitations

Currently you can use plugins from a different version but you are limited to a single
source for a version, you cant have by example 2 different 1.7.1 versions

## Development

Currently working on getting all the basics working. For lots of addons I do accept pull requests ;-)
If you prefer to have me writing the support for an addon, please create an issue on github.

### How to add new addons

In order to add new addons you need to create a template snippet like openhab-addon-[binding|action|io|persistence]-ADDONNAME-VERSION.cfg.erb
This is automatically concated when configuration data is set using hiera.
Hiera
```
openhab_addons:
   persistence-mypersistence:
       configuration:
           host                    : 'localhost'
           database                : 'openhab'
           my_array:
             - id                  : '1'
               name                : 'name1'
             - id                  : '2'
               name                : 'name2'
```
In the template you can use @configuration to access the data.

```
mypersistence:url=mypersistence://<%= @configuration['host'] -%>/<%= @configuration['database'] %>
# Creates:
#mypersistence:url=mypersistence://localhost/openhab

# Array Example
<% @configuration['my_array'].each do |data| -%>
mypersistence:<%= data['id'] -%>.name=<%= data['name'] %>
<% end -%>

# Creates:
mypersistence:1.name=name1
mypersistence:2.name=name2

```

### Todo
* test on centos/etc
* habmin is installed, but requires zwave addon, without it doesnt work, need to ensure a zwave addon is available
* lots of modules need their config in the openhab.cfg, so lots of work on the template. Please make issues for requests
* updating the documentation
* travis-ci and other testing
